Welcome back.
So in this video I'm going to begin the solution to the quotes game and what we're going to focus on
is the scraping portion the game logical comes second.
So by the end of the video we want to have a list containing data from all the quotes on this Web site
and we just want the text of the quote the name of the author of the quote and then the link.
The ATF the link to the author's bio.
So we should have a big list by the end and we're going to run it on every page of the Web site.
So here's a site and we already kind of took a look.
I will come back to this but it's always a good idea to start by identifying the information we want
and where it is.
So what we want is just all of these quotes on any given page where class is quote.
And fortunately we know how to do that using beautiful soup.
But before we even do that we have to make our request so let's go to our terminal and I'll make a new
file here and I'll call this one scraper dot P Y and I'll add that you are all we need up there just
so I have it and we need to import a couple of things.
The first is going to be requests and we'll also import from B-S for let's do it that way.
Import beautiful soup.
There we go and we'll just start simply by making our first request to this Web site and we can just
do it one time.
It started easy.
So that's going to be requests to get.
And then you also get rid of that in quotes and then we want to just pass the response text.
So when you just save this to a variable just call it raise it calls requests get and then we'll do
a red dot text for beautiful soup and save that and just call it soup and let's just make sure we're
getting anything.
So we'll do print soup dot body and let's see if it works.
Do we have any problems.
All right.
So we are getting the body next.
Let's focus on actually getting a list of quotes.
So we want to get all of the items that have a nice quote.
All elements were classes quote and there's a couple of ways we can do that.
You could use select and then use the CSSA style selector.
Or we can do find all.
And let me do this in a separate variable or actually so souped up find all.
And we want to find where class and we have to use that underscore.
So we don't avoid using a keyword class.
Class equals.
And it was called quote and save that to a variable.
So call it quotes and let's just print that variable now.
All right.
Clear some space here.
And looks like it's hard to tell because there's all this metal stuff in here as well but you can see
here's a quote.
Imperfection is beauty.
Blah blah blah blah blah.
Then we can see the author.
There's a class author Marilyn Monroe and then the draft to her bio.
Ok cool.
So next we're going to loop through all of the quotes.
So just a for quote in quotes.
We're going to want to let's just focus on the quote text first and if we look at an individual quote
the text is actually located instead of a span with the class text so we can just use on each quote
which is here we have a list of these.
We'll just call DOT find the class of text and then that should give us the text of the quote and if
we try that now.
So we do find and then we want class underscore equals and then text.
Well let's let's start by just printing that.
And if all goes well we should get a whole bunch of quotes and it looks good we're getting all of these
bands.
Now we just want to grab the text out of them.
So that's just another thing we don't get text.
We only want the inner texts we don't actually want the span's.
And there we go.
We get all of these quotes here a day without sunshine is like you know night.
Great quote.
Whoever said that.
So at this point we could now make a list just called.
I don't know all quotes and have it be empty.
And then we'll append to all quotes a dictionary and in that dictionary We'll start by what we call
this text.
That's a sign text to be this right here.
And then next let's assign the author name and to get that data inside the quote.
Let's see there's this span here with by perfect.
There's this small element with class author and the inner text that is the author's name.
We can just do another find to quote of find class underscore equals instead of text its author and
then don't get text.
And at the end this time must just print all quotes and see if we now have text and author in there
together and we don't get any syntax errors.
It looks good.
If things like text a day without sunshine is like you know night and then author Steve Martin.
OK finally we need to grab this.
You are el So what you can do is just in the developer tools on Chrome which if you don't remember how
to open them on a Mac it's command option J or you can right click and then go to inspect.
OK.
So you click on an element after selecting this and it's highlighted here and you see that there isn't
a class that we can select automatically just to give us what we want but inside the div is the only
anchor tag in here.
No there are other Angerer tags here.
So what we can do is just find the first anchor tag because there aren't any.
So if we go through one quote first element Are there any anchor text in here.
Nope.
OK so then next element down.
This is indeed the first anchor tag.
So we can take advantage of that what we want is we don't want the inner text that says about we actually
want that Tref here.
Slash author slash Albert Einstein.
So to get the attribute we can use the square brackets syntax.
So we begin.
Let's make.
I don't know what we call this bio link or something like that.
And that should be quote find.
And then we're just going to find the first anchor tag.
So not find all but find otherwise find out gives us a list and then we just want to f on that.
And this is the syntax we use to get a single attribute.
OK.
And make sure know that's intended properly if you print it all now.
I think I'm missing a comma.
Yes I am.
OK.
Try again.
Now we get all this data in a list text.
The world as we have created bubble up of law.
Author Albert Einstein bio link.
There we go.
OK.
So that's one page.
All of these results are coming from a single page.
Now we face the tricky task of automating this so that it happens on every page.
And the solution that I think is best is to use if we scroll down.
There we go.
This next link to find this on each page if it exists and if it does exist grab that you are well and
scrape that you around and then keep going and try and find the next button and extract the you and
scrape that Intel.
Like I showed in the last video eventually there isn't a next button.
And if that's the case we'll stop.
OK.
So we need to know how to find that next button.
There's an ally with class equals next so we can use that and then find the anchor tag inside of the
fly with class equals next.
OK.
So down here after we go through all the quotes.
Let's also do a soup of find and then the class was called next and we can just save that to variable
cut next button and then we'll do print next DTN dot find.
And we want to find the first anchor tag dot X and not dot.
We just want the H ref the link in that first anchor tag and we'll just print that and that's it.
Let's just only print that actually so we won't print all quotes.
And if you look down here we get page slash too.
You also might notice that I'm getting this warning and it's telling me I'm 9:6.
I'm not specifying what type of markup I'm using.
So it still works but we just need to add this.
And where are you.
Here we go.
This Each symbol that parser line I forgot that tells beautiful soup.
We are indeed parsing HMO.
All right.
So this is giving us the next you are out to scrape.
Well it's not the fool you are.
But we could append this onto the base.
You are ill.
So let's do that.
Let's make a variable called base.
You are all
equal to that string and then set a variable equal to you or row and are row is going to start as Page
slash 1 and then we're going to combine these two.
But this is going to change every time.
This will be the result of what we find in the next button.
But the first time around it has to start here.
Serena do requests get.
And then I don't know how about an F string.
And what do you base your L and then no space immediately after are you or.
And then the other thing is we want to move this code into here.
Well not into there but we're going to move it down and then we're going to add a loop.
And this is a big step but I'm going to do a set of wild true.
I to do a while you Arel and at the beginning that's going to run forever.
So that's not good.
So don't run this just yet while you go make a request to base you or else with the you are appended
at the end.
So make a request to here.
So if we're doing a while then we need to update the value of your l.
I'm going to set instead of printing this here.
I'm going to set you r l equals next PTEN dot find.
So this will be that you are all that we find on the next page.
So the next time around you l will now be page slash to page 3 but we solve the problem of Eventually
there isn't going to be a next button find.
And just to be safe we can just add some conditional logic in here.
So you are out equals next button Fabo blah.
If Next button exists in the first place.
So if we can find that next button but if there is no next button on that page then we're going to set
it to be.
We could do none we could do false even an empty string but not as a kind of a standard thing to do.
And I'm not going to do it on one line like this.
So if we find the next button we're going to look for the next button on each page.
If we find it set you RL to whatever that you are inside if that next button is and then that will restart
the scraping process.
If there isn't an X button so this should only happen one time at the end we get to the last page there's
no next button set.
You are out to be none.
And then this will stop.
So finally here let's do a print let's just print all quotes and then I also like to have some feedback
as we go through this.
So I'll do something like printing.
Let me grab this string.
You print scraping or paste that string.
OK.
Now scraping that you throw.
So we have an idea what's happening because it will take a while.
Not that long but a couple of seconds.
All right.
Let's see if I have any syntax errors.
Moment of Truth here.
All right.
See if it works.
And when you look at that it's going so fast.
OK a couple of points I'd like to make one we can celebrate it works.
We have all of this data.
There's a lot of quotes now.
So our game.
I don't know how many quotes.
There's like 10 or more in a page to at least 100 quotes.
But the thing I want to point out is that this went really quickly and this site is intended for people
to scrape.
So that's OK.
They're not going to freak out.
But still it's polite to actually take a bit of time in between especially if you're scraping a site
that maybe they don't want you to scrape.
Then you definitely it's not a matter of being polite.
It's a matter of not being caught.
So what you want to do is space your requests out so we can import from time import sleep.
And this is a way just to halt our code.
So in this loop wherever we want just at the end we can do is sleep and then a number of seconds like
one second or two seconds and now each time through the loop it will wait two seconds before requesting
again.
And that's a good idea.
One because you don't want to overload the server in too.
You don't want to attract attention if you're sending a bunch of requests in one second.
And this is only happening 10 or so times.
But if you're scraping a site that has tons of data you could be scraping.
I don't know making ten thousand requests or more than you really would.
You really want to be polite and you don't want to overload the server.
So now I do it it's slowed down and I will speed this up so I'll be back in a second.
OK.
And now we get the exact same result.
So I'm going to remove.
We're going to comment out the sleep just so that you know I don't have to edit around it constantly
in the next video.
Just keep in mind that this is kind of standard protocol when you are scraping but it doesn't really
matter for this exercise because we're not scraping that much data.
All right.
So so far we have successfully scraped all the quotes data.
Now we're ready to go forth and actually create a game using the quotes data.
One thing I would mention is if you were really doing this for real it would be better to save the quotes
to a file.
So you only scrape one time.
Or maybe once every week or something and then when you actually run the game it would just call that
CXXVI file or whatever file you created Jaison or CFE or in a pickle file and your game would just start
by loading that file.
It would be a lot faster than having to request you know this you Arel 10 times but it wasn't part of
the requirement.
So if you do want to do that good on you it would be it would make for a better experience for a user
to not have to wait for all the scraping to happen.
But this will work just as well for this little exercise.
OK.
In the next video we will build the game logic.